# Part 6 Logging into your NUS HPC account

## 26.
Once you have received the approval email, copy your SSH key from your laptop to your HPC account using the following command (replace `your_id` with your NUSNET ID) 

> <p class="note"> Note
>
> Windows users should enter the commands below using the WSL

```shell
(base) $ ssh-copy-id your_id@atlas8.nus.edu.sg
```

You should then be prompted to enter the password for your NUSNET ID. If you are not on the NUS network, you will have to first connect to WebVPN.

For those using Windows off-campus, there appears to be a problem using WSL with WebVPN. You can use the PowerShell for the rest of this lab instead. You will have to first generate your SSH keypair for use in the PowerShell environment:

```ssh-keygen```

Remember to hit `return` for all the prompts to create a password-less keypair.

However, instead of `ssh-copy-id`, you will have to copy your public key to your HPC account:

```shell
scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub your_id@atlas8.nus.edu.sg:~/id_rsa.pub
```

Login to the HPC:

```shell
ssh your_id@atlas8.nus.edu.sg
```

Append the public key to the end of your `authorized_keys` file:

```shell
cat ~/id_rsa.pub >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

You can then delete the public key:

```shell
rm ~/id_rsa.pub
```

## 27.
Once your SSH public key has been copied to your HPC account, you should be able to SSH to the head node on the HPC by doing:

```shell
(base) $ ssh your_id@atlas8.nus.edu.sg
```

This should log you into your HPC account without the need to type your password.

There are two head nodes you can use: `atlas8`, and `atlas9`.

> <p class="task"> Task
>
> Take a screenshot of your Terminal window showing you successfully logging into the HPC without typing a password and include it in your lab report.